agent_workspaces/onboarding/training_documents/tools_and_technologies.md, before:

# Dream.OS Tools and Technologies Guide

## Overview
This document provides a comprehensive guide to the tools, technologies, and frameworks that agents will use in the Dream.OS autonomous development system.

## 1. Development Tools

### Version Control
- **Git**: Distributed version control system
  - **GitHub/GitLab**: Code hosting and collaboration platforms
  - **Git Flow**: Branching strategy for feature development
  - **Git Hooks**: Automated scripts for code quality checks

### Integrated Development Environments (IDEs)
- **Visual Studio Code**: Lightweight, extensible code editor
  - Extensions: Python, JavaScript, Git, Docker
  - Settings sync across team members
- **PyCharm**: Python-specific IDE with advanced features
- **WebStorm**: JavaScript/TypeScript IDE
- **IntelliJ IDEA**: Java IDE with multi-language support

### Code Quality Tools
- **Black**: Python code formatter
- **Prettier**: JavaScript/TypeScript code formatter
- **ESLint**: JavaScript/TypeScript linting
- **Pylint**: Python linting and code analysis
- **SonarQube**: Code quality and security analysis
- **CodeClimate**: Automated code review

## 2. Programming Languages and Frameworks

### Python Ecosystem
- **Python 3.9+**: Primary backend language
- **Django**: Full-featured web framework
  - Django REST Framework for APIs
  - Django Admin for data management
- **Flask**: Lightweight web framework
- **FastAPI**: Modern, fast web framework for APIs
- **Celery**: Distributed task queue
- **SQLAlchemy**: SQL toolkit and ORM

### JavaScript/TypeScript Ecosystem
- **Node.js**: JavaScript runtime
- **TypeScript**: Typed JavaScript
- **React**: Frontend library for user interfaces
- **Vue.js**: Progressive JavaScript framework
- **Angular**: Platform for building web applications
- **Express.js**: Web application framework
- **Next.js**: React framework for production

### Database Technologies
- **PostgreSQL**: Advanced open-source database
- **MongoDB**: NoSQL document database
- **Redis**: In-memory data structure store
- **SQLite**: Lightweight, serverless database
- **Elasticsearch**: Search and analytics engine

## 3. DevOps and Infrastructure

### Containerization
- **Docker**: Containerization platform
  - Docker Compose for multi-container applications
  - Docker Swarm for container orchestration
- **Kubernetes**: Container orchestration platform
  - Helm for package management
  - Istio for service mesh

### Cloud Platforms
- **AWS (Amazon Web Services)**:
  - EC2 for virtual servers
  - S3 for object storage
  - RDS for managed databases
  - Lambda for serverless computing
- **Azure**: Microsoft's cloud platform
- **Google Cloud Platform (GCP)**: Google's cloud services

### Infrastructure as Code
- **Terraform**: Infrastructure provisioning tool
- **Ansible**: Configuration management and automation
- **CloudFormation**: AWS infrastructure as code
- **Pulumi**: Modern infrastructure as code platform

### CI/CD Tools
- **Jenkins**: Open-source automation server
- **GitHub Actions**: CI/CD integrated with GitHub
- **GitLab CI/CD**: Integrated CI/CD with GitLab
- **CircleCI**: Cloud-based CI/CD platform
- **Travis CI**: Continuous integration service

## 4. Testing Tools

### Unit Testing
- **Python**: pytest, unittest
- **JavaScript**: Jest, Mocha, Jasmine
- **Java**: JUnit, TestNG
- **Coverage**: Coverage.py, Istanbul

### Integration Testing
- **Postman**: API testing and development
- **Insomnia**: API client and testing
- **RestAssured**: Java library for REST API testing
- **Supertest**: Node.js HTTP testing

### End-to-End Testing
- **Selenium**: Web browser automation
- **Cypress**: Modern web testing framework
- **Playwright**: Browser automation for testing
- **Appium**: Mobile app testing

### Performance Testing
- **JMeter**: Load testing tool
- **K6**: Modern load testing tool
- **Gatling**: High-performance load testing
- **Artillery**: Cloud-native load testing

## 5. Monitoring and Observability

### Application Monitoring
- **Prometheus**: Monitoring system and time series database
- **Grafana**: Metrics visualization and analytics
- **Datadog**: Monitoring and analytics platform
- **New Relic**: Application performance monitoring

### Logging
- **ELK Stack**: Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana
- **Fluentd**: Data collection and forwarding
- **Splunk**: Log management and analysis
- **Graylog**: Log management platform

### Tracing
- **Jaeger**: Distributed tracing system
- **Zipkin**: Distributed tracing system
- **OpenTelemetry**: Observability framework

## 6. Security Tools

### Vulnerability Scanning
- **OWASP ZAP**: Web application security scanner
- **Burp Suite**: Web application security testing
- **Nessus**: Vulnerability assessment
- **Snyk**: Dependency vulnerability scanning

### Security Testing
- **Metasploit**: Penetration testing framework
- **Nmap**: Network discovery and security auditing
- **Wireshark**: Network protocol analyzer
- **Kali Linux**: Security testing distribution

### Code Security
- **Bandit**: Python security linter
- **ESLint Security**: JavaScript security rules
- **SonarQube**: Security analysis
- **CodeQL**: Semantic code analysis

## 7. Data Science and Analytics

### Data Processing
- **Pandas**: Data manipulation and analysis
- **NumPy**: Numerical computing
- **Apache Spark**: Distributed computing
- **Dask**: Parallel computing with Python

### Machine Learning
- **Scikit-learn**: Machine learning library
- **TensorFlow**: Deep learning framework
- **PyTorch**: Deep learning framework
- **Keras**: High-level neural networks API

### Data Visualization
- **Matplotlib**: Plotting library
- **Seaborn**: Statistical data visualization
- **Plotly**: Interactive plotting library
- **Tableau**: Business intelligence and analytics

### Jupyter Ecosystem
- **Jupyter Notebook**: Interactive computing
- **JupyterLab**: Web-based development environment
- **JupyterHub**: Multi-user Jupyter deployment

## 8. Communication and Collaboration

### Team Communication
- **Slack**: Team messaging and collaboration
- **Microsoft Teams**: Team collaboration platform
- **Discord**: Voice and text communication
- **Zoom**: Video conferencing

### Project Management
- **Jira**: Issue and project tracking
- **Trello**: Visual project management
- **Asana**: Work management platform
- **Monday.com**: Work operating system

### Documentation
- **Confluence**: Team collaboration and documentation
- **Notion**: All-in-one workspace
- **GitBook**: Documentation platform
- **Read the Docs**: Documentation hosting

## 9. Development Utilities

### Package Managers
- **Python**: pip, conda, poetry
- **JavaScript**: npm, yarn, pnpm
- **Java**: Maven, Gradle
- **Docker**: Docker Hub

### Build Tools
- **Python**: setuptools, wheel
- **JavaScript**: Webpack, Rollup, Vite
- **Java**: Maven, Gradle
- **Go**: go build

### Development Servers
- **Python**: Django development server, Flask development server
- **JavaScript**: Node.js development server, Vite dev server
- **Java**: Spring Boot embedded server
- **Go**: Go development server

## 10. Specialized Tools

### API Development
- **Swagger/OpenAPI**: API specification
- **Postman**: API development and testing
- **Insomnia**: API client
- **GraphQL Playground**: GraphQL IDE

### Database Tools
- **pgAdmin**: PostgreSQL administration
- **MongoDB Compass**: MongoDB GUI
- **Redis Desktop Manager**: Redis GUI
- **DBeaver**: Universal database tool

### Design Tools
- **Figma**: Design and prototyping
- **Adobe XD**: UX/UI design
- **Sketch**: Digital design
- **InVision**: Design collaboration

### Performance Tools
- **Chrome DevTools**: Web development tools
- **React Developer Tools**: React debugging
- **Vue DevTools**: Vue.js debugging
- **Python Profiler**: Performance analysis

## 11. Environment Setup

### Development Environment
```bash
# Python environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # Linux/Mac
venv\Scripts\activate     # Windows
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Node.js environment
npm install
npm run dev

# Docker environment
docker-compose up -d
```

### Configuration Management
- **Environment Variables**: Use .env files for configuration
- **Configuration Files**: YAML, JSON, TOML formats
- **Secrets Management**: HashiCorp Vault, AWS Secrets Manager
- **Feature Flags**: LaunchDarkly, Split.io

## 12. Best Practices

### Tool Selection
- **Evaluate Needs**: Choose tools based on project requirements
- **Team Expertise**: Consider team's existing knowledge
- **Integration**: Ensure tools work well together
- **Maintenance**: Consider long-term maintenance requirements

### Tool Management
- **Version Control**: Keep tool configurations in version control
- **Documentation**: Document tool setup and usage
- **Training**: Provide training for new tools
- **Updates**: Keep tools updated and secure

### Automation
- **Scripts**: Automate repetitive tasks
- **CI/CD**: Automate testing and deployment
- **Monitoring**: Automate monitoring and alerting
- **Backup**: Automate backup and recovery

---

**Version**: 1.0  
**Last Updated**: 2025-06-29  
**Next Review**: 2025-07-29

Commit message:

Update agent coordinates and add new features - GUI improvements, agent messaging, and coordination demos

agent_workspaces/onboarding/training_documents/tools_and_technologies.md, after:

# Dream.OS Tools and Technologies Guide

## Overview
This document provides a comprehensive guide to the tools, technologies, and frameworks that agents will use in the Dream.OS autonomous development system.

## 1. Development Tools

### Version Control
- **Git**: Distributed version control system
  - **GitHub/GitLab**: Code hosting and collaboration platforms
  - **Git Flow**: Branching strategy for feature development
  - **Git Hooks**: Automated scripts for code quality checks

### Integrated Development Environments (IDEs)
- **Visual Studio Code**: Lightweight, extensible code editor
  - Extensions: Python, JavaScript, Git, Docker
  - Settings sync across team members
- **PyCharm**: Python-specific IDE with advanced features
- **WebStorm**: JavaScript/TypeScript IDE
- **IntelliJ IDEA**: Java IDE with multi-language support

### Code Quality Tools
- **Black**: Python code formatter
- **Prettier**: JavaScript/TypeScript code formatter
- **ESLint**: JavaScript/TypeScript linting
- **Pylint**: Python linting and code analysis
- **SonarQube**: Code quality and security analysis
- **CodeClimate**: Automated code review

## 2. Programming Languages and Frameworks

### Python Ecosystem
- **Python 3.9+**: Primary backend language
- **Django**: Full-featured web framework
  - Django REST Framework for APIs
  - Django Admin for data management
- **Flask**: Lightweight web framework
- **FastAPI**: Modern, fast web framework for APIs
- **Celery**: Distributed task queue
- **SQLAlchemy**: SQL toolkit and ORM

### JavaScript/TypeScript Ecosystem
- **Node.js**: JavaScript runtime
- **TypeScript**: Typed JavaScript
- **React**: Frontend library for user interfaces
- **Vue.js**: Progressive JavaScript framework
- **Angular**: Platform for building web applications
- **Express.js**: Web application framework
- **Next.js**: React framework for production

### Database Technologies
- **PostgreSQL**: Advanced open-source database
- **MongoDB**: NoSQL document database
- **Redis**: In-memory data structure store
- **SQLite**: Lightweight, serverless database
- **Elasticsearch**: Search and analytics engine

## 3. DevOps and Infrastructure

### Containerization
- **Docker**: Containerization platform
  - Docker Compose for multi-container applications
  - Docker Swarm for container orchestration
- **Kubernetes**: Container orchestration platform
  - Helm for package management
  - Istio for service mesh

### Cloud Platforms
- **AWS (Amazon Web Services)**:
  - EC2 for virtual servers
  - S3 for object storage
  - RDS for managed databases
  - Lambda for serverless computing
- **Azure**: Microsoft's cloud platform
- **Google Cloud Platform (GCP)**: Google's cloud services

### Infrastructure as Code
- **Terraform**: Infrastructure provisioning tool
- **Ansible**: Configuration management and automation
- **CloudFormation**: AWS infrastructure as code
- **Pulumi**: Modern infrastructure as code platform

### CI/CD Tools
- **Jenkins**: Open-source automation server
- **GitHub Actions**: CI/CD integrated with GitHub
- **GitLab CI/CD**: Integrated CI/CD with GitLab
- **CircleCI**: Cloud-based CI/CD platform
- **Travis CI**: Continuous integration service

## 4. Testing Tools

### Unit Testing
- **Python**: pytest, unittest
- **JavaScript**: Jest, Mocha, Jasmine
- **Java**: JUnit, TestNG
- **Coverage**: Coverage.py, Istanbul

### Integration Testing
- **Postman**: API testing and development
- **Insomnia**: API client and testing
- **RestAssured**: Java library for REST API testing
- **Supertest**: Node.js HTTP testing

### End-to-End Testing
- **Selenium**: Web browser automation
- **Cypress**: Modern web testing framework
- **Playwright**: Browser automation for testing
- **Appium**: Mobile app testing

### Performance Testing
- **JMeter**: Load testing tool
- **K6**: Modern load testing tool
- **Gatling**: High-performance load testing
- **Artillery**: Cloud-native load testing

## 5. Monitoring and Observability

### Application Monitoring
- **Prometheus**: Monitoring system and time series database
- **Grafana**: Metrics visualization and analytics
- **Datadog**: Monitoring and analytics platform
- **New Relic**: Application performance monitoring

### Logging
- **ELK Stack**: Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana
- **Fluentd**: Data collection and forwarding
- **Splunk**: Log management and analysis
- **Graylog**: Log management platform

### Tracing
- **Jaeger**: Distributed tracing system
- **Zipkin**: Distributed tracing system
- **OpenTelemetry**: Observability framework

## 6. Security Tools

### Vulnerability Scanning
- **OWASP ZAP**: Web application security scanner
- **Burp Suite**: Web application security testing
- **Nessus**: Vulnerability assessment
- **Snyk**: Dependency vulnerability scanning

### Security Testing
- **Metasploit**: Penetration testing framework
- **Nmap**: Network discovery and security auditing
- **Wireshark**: Network protocol analyzer
- **Kali Linux**: Security testing distribution

### Code Security
- **Bandit**: Python security linter
- **ESLint Security**: JavaScript security rules
- **SonarQube**: Security analysis
- **CodeQL**: Semantic code analysis

## 7. Data Science and Analytics

### Data Processing
- **Pandas**: Data manipulation and analysis
- **NumPy**: Numerical computing
- **Apache Spark**: Distributed computing
- **Dask**: Parallel computing with Python

### Machine Learning
- **Scikit-learn**: Machine learning library
- **TensorFlow**: Deep learning framework
- **PyTorch**: Deep learning framework
- **Keras**: High-level neural networks API

### Data Visualization
- **Matplotlib**: Plotting library
- **Seaborn**: Statistical data visualization
- **Plotly**: Interactive plotting library
- **Tableau**: Business intelligence and analytics

### Jupyter Ecosystem
- **Jupyter Notebook**: Interactive computing
- **JupyterLab**: Web-based development environment
- **JupyterHub**: Multi-user Jupyter deployment

## 8. Communication and Collaboration

### Team Communication
- **Slack**: Team messaging and collaboration
- **Microsoft Teams**: Team collaboration platform
- **Discord**: Voice and text communication
- **Zoom**: Video conferencing

### Project Management
- **Jira**: Issue and project tracking
- **Trello**: Visual project management
- **Asana**: Work management platform
- **Monday.com**: Work operating system

### Documentation
- **Confluence**: Team collaboration and documentation
- **Notion**: All-in-one workspace
- **GitBook**: Documentation platform
- **Read the Docs**: Documentation hosting

## 9. Development Utilities

### Package Managers
- **Python**: pip, conda, poetry
- **JavaScript**: npm, yarn, pnpm
- **Java**: Maven, Gradle
- **Docker**: Docker Hub

### Build Tools
- **Python**: setuptools, wheel
- **JavaScript**: Webpack, Rollup, Vite
- **Java**: Maven, Gradle
- **Go**: go build

### Development Servers
- **Python**: Django development server, Flask development server
- **JavaScript**: Node.js development server, Vite dev server
- **Java**: Spring Boot embedded server
- **Go**: Go development server

## 10. Specialized Tools

### API Development
- **Swagger/OpenAPI**: API specification
- **Postman**: API development and testing
- **Insomnia**: API client
- **GraphQL Playground**: GraphQL IDE

### Database Tools
- **pgAdmin**: PostgreSQL administration
- **MongoDB Compass**: MongoDB GUI
- **Redis Desktop Manager**: Redis GUI
- **DBeaver**: Universal database tool

### Design Tools
- **Figma**: Design and prototyping
- **Adobe XD**: UX/UI design
- **Sketch**: Digital design
- **InVision**: Design collaboration

### Performance Tools
- **Chrome DevTools**: Web development tools
- **React Developer Tools**: React debugging
- **Vue DevTools**: Vue.js debugging
- **Python Profiler**: Performance analysis

## 11. Environment Setup

### Development Environment
```bash
# Python environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # Linux/Mac
venv\Scripts\activate     # Windows
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Node.js environment
npm install
npm run dev

# Docker environment
docker-compose up -d
```

### Configuration Management
- **Environment Variables**: Use .env files for configuration
- **Configuration Files**: YAML, JSON, TOML formats
- **Secrets Management**: HashiCorp Vault, AWS Secrets Manager
- **Feature Flags**: LaunchDarkly, Split.io

## 12. Best Practices

### Tool Selection
- **Evaluate Needs**: Choose tools based on project requirements
- **Team Expertise**: Consider team's existing knowledge
- **Integration**: Ensure tools work well together
- **Maintenance**: Consider long-term maintenance requirements

### Tool Management
- **Version Control**: Keep tool configurations in version control
- **Documentation**: Document tool setup and usage
- **Training**: Provide training for new tools
- **Updates**: Keep tools updated and secure

### Automation
- **Scripts**: Automate repetitive tasks
- **CI/CD**: Automate testing and deployment
- **Monitoring**: Automate monitoring and alerting
- **Backup**: Automate backup and recovery

# agent_cell_phone.py CLI Tool

This is the primary interface for agent-to-agent communication and automation.

**Usage:**
```
python src/agent_cell_phone.py -a <TargetAgent> -m '<Your message>' -t <tag>
```

**Example:**
```
python src/agent_cell_phone.py -a Agent-2 -m 'Integration complete. Ready for next steps.' -t response
```

- Supports scripting for continuous, autonomous operation.
- All agents should use this tool for messaging and coordination.

---

**Version**: 1.0  
**Last Updated**: 2025-06-29  
**Next Review**: 2025-07-29
